Thank you.
Morning.
This programme contains
very strong language.
Morning, Cliff, let me take that.
Thank you.
Up all night
with these bloody things.
At a time like this, for God's sake!
Going to have a pizza. Have you got
the digest, please? ..Thank you.
Um...
Would you mind taking them? Oh, why?
Um, Malcolm's there.
Malcolm? Where? In there? In there.
Why?
It's just a social call.
A social call? Jesus Christ! Yeah.
Um...have you got him coffee?
Did you get him coffee?
I thought you were organising it.
Oh, for Christ...
Get coffee, get, um, danish pastries,
croissants and... Danish pastries,
croissants... No, no, no!
Fruit! Get lots of fruit. Can you
get fruit? A pile of fruit
and lots of coffee. Now! OK?
He's useless.
He's absolutely useless! He is!
He's useless! He's as useless as
a marzipan dildo.
I've got to go.
The minister's just walked in.
Don't interrupt your call because of
me. You're a minister of the Crown.
You don't need to listen
to all of my chutney!
I'm sure it's much, much
more interesting than chutney.
No, no, no. It's... It's a...
my cock-up, as usual. I thought that
Graham Dixon was doing a briefing,
and it turns out it's Graham Hughes.
Too many Grahams around. We ought to
kill some of them. Exactly!
So... So...
God, look, I'm sorry about the
fuck-up about the coffee. Oh, God...
How am I supposed to run a department
if I can't get the Prime Minister's
enforcer a cup of fucking coffee?
No, no, that's OK.
Listen, the thing is...
you are doing a bloody good job
here, Cliff.
With all this shit in the paper about
whether I'm going or not... Yeah.
Terri, can you bring the Mail in,
please? ..Have you seen the Mail?
Is that "Lawton dangles by a
thread"? Yeah! Dangles by a thread!
It's OK. We've got... Lawton dangles
by a thread? We've got. It's OK. Do
keep it.
Yeah. No, just leave it there.
Thank you, Terri.
There's a lot of them, isn't there?
It started with the Telegraph diary,
but just more and more and more.
Seriously,
the PM likes you personally.
I like you personally, and we've
absolutely no desire to get rid of
you. I just want you to know that.
None of this negative stuff
is coming from us.
Oh, no, mate. That...
..makes a big difference. Makes me
feel a lot more secure. Does it?
Well, it's difficult.
What's difficult? Just endless
headlines, day after day.
It's chipping away at confidence.
Absolutely. The thing is...
we're starting to look weak.
Everybody's saying, "When's
he gonna go. When's he gonna go?"
Right... And you don't want us
to look weak, do you? No, no...
So there you are!
That's why you've gotta go.
No.
Yes. No.
KNOCK AT DOOR
Would you like some coffee?
Fuck off! Tea?
You fuck off, darling.
Malcolm, look, um...
if you do this, it's the bollocks
of the jungle out there, you know?
They're like wolves...
pissed wolves. I've made the
announcement. I've told the Lobby.
You've told the Lobby I'm going?
Yeah. Sorry, Cliff.
Minister... Yeah, get used to
"Cliff".
I've booked you in for
the usual soapy-tit-wank farewell
at Number 10 in 20 minutes.
I've drafted a letter of
resignation. It says you're jumping
before you're pushed,
although we're going to be briefing
that you were pushed. Sorry.
Um...
Look, you don't need to do all this.
What about Tom, yeah? Everybody
knows he's fucking up Transport.
We can't sack Tom at Transport!
We can't lose anyone at Transport,
they're important!
What, and Social Affairs isn't?
Oh... OK, the Department of
Social Affairs is very important,
but it's not Transport.
Transport's cars, buses, trucks...
I know what Transport
fucking entails!
Look, look...
HUGH SIGHS DEEPLY
I'll look at them.
"Personal reasons"?
Yeah. I thought that would
give you adequate scope. Scope?
What like, um, shooting up in the
Cabinet office or something? What?
Stuffing a cat up my arse and having
a wank? What do you mean? You know,
this could be a great deal worse.
You have had a good innings.
You have been here for 18 months
and, you know, I have written
some very nice things about you in
the PM's reply to your resignation.
Some very nice fucking things
indeed! I had a lump in my throat,
and you know why?
Because no-one who matters thinks
any the less of you over this...
SO FAR, OK?
Right, one more thing.
The Daily Mail.
David Topham has got it into his
head that we are going to sack you
because of Press pressure.
I wonder why(!)
Look, you're in no position to dish
out fucking sarcasm, that's over.
You no longer have purchase in the
sarcasm world! Get on the phone,
tell them that you're jumping
before you are pushed. We were
going to push you because of your
deeply-held fucking personal issues!
You want me to write my own obituary?
Get on the fucking phone!
Do it now!
Morning!
Good morning. Have you seen the
Times? No. Jo Cherman. She's been
a bit of a bitch, actually.
Well, she always is. Yeah.
Everything in this package is small!
We'll go down, the local yokels
will take photographs
and that's fine. They'll snap away
for 20... 20 minutes is enough.
He's here now, so don't worry.
Morning, Hugh!
Good morning. Come on!
Terri, shush! I've got something
very important to say. I've got...
Olly, I've got something for us.
I got us a very tasty little morsel,
because I had a chat with my very
good friend the Prime Minister of
Great Britain... Oh, really? Oh?
Yes, and remember the, um...
Olly, your benefit unit fraud...
Anti-Benefit Fraud Executive - ABFE.
ABFE? Um, Scrounger Squad...
Snooper Squad. Snooper Squad! The
one with spending implications? Yes.
The Prime Minister's view is,
"Fuck the spending implications,
I like it."
Good.
So this is us, we're on the map.
It's a chance for me, Glenn, to get
on Richard And Judy and plant that
flag right on their fucking sofa.
So the Prime Minister's
authorised you to announce it?
Well, that's very much
what he signalled, yes, very clearly.
He said he's right behind us
and it's what we should be doing.
This is great. So we can do it this
afternoon at the school, can't we?
We can clear the press conference
and... Excuse me.
Yeah, we'll double-bubble it. Yeah?
We'll leak it to the Standard, then
trail it on The World At One, yes?
We need someone at the Standard...
What about Angela Heaney? She's at
the Standard now, isn't she? Yeah.
Yeah, Olly?
Um, yes, she is. Do you not think
that maybe she's a bit junior?
A bit too much like your ex, who
broke your heart then dumped you
with a text message?
It was a fucking e-mail! It wasn't
a text message. She'll write
what we want. She's easy.
She's easy. Yeah, she is easy.
I can see that you've all got big,
stiff hard-ons for this... Sorry?
That is nice. I'm not saying
that's not nice but... Terri?
..there is no way we'll clear it
by this afternoon so... Why not?
Cool it. I'll ring Paul
at the Treasury. No! No, no!
No phone calls to the Treasury!
If you call the Treasury, he's
going to have to dress up as
catering with a big tray of drinks
and a pot of sliced lemons... I'm
not doing that. They'll just take it.
I'm just going by procedure.
Terri, I love doing things
the right way, that ethical stuff,
I love it, we all do,
but it's very difficult when you're
the first person to put the gun down,
because people tend to jump on your
head as if it's a ripe watermelon.
We don't want that, do we? OK.
The Prime Minister is
above the Treasury in the hierarchy.
I can write it down on a chart.
Whatever. Thank you.
Very good, Minister, I'll get to it.
Yeah. You're just doing your job.
Yeah. (Not very well.)
Will you get Angela on the phone
for Olly? ..You can deal with this,
Olly, yes? Um...
Thanks. The driver. ..Technically.
Yeah. Will it be my driver? Yes.
I don't fucking like him. Why not?
He's... I don't know.
I think he despises me.
We'll have to use him today, because
you know how the pool system works.
So we go down to the school, um...
He's sort of contemptuous.
The driver?
I feel like he looks down on me.
No. Hugh he likes you, I'm sure.
PIPS ON CAR RADIO
'The World At One, this is
Nick Clarke with 30 minutes of
news and...' You can fuck off!
'This afternoon the Social Affairs
Secretary, Hugh Abbot...' Evening!
First story up. '..Funding for
an anti-fraud executive to include
a uniformed so-called Snooper Force.
'The announcement suggests the DSA
has pushed the Treasury
into releasing more funds,
'so is the Treasury losing its
central policy?' Not before time!
'We'll talk to Opposition spokesman,
Mark Davis Nathenson...'
If you can get him out of the bath.
'First, estimates of fatalities
from yesterday's train disaster in
Bangalore have risen overnight...'
That's marvellous.
MOBILE RINGS
Oh, Tucker. ..Malcolm.
What the fuck was that? Was this
whole Snooper Force thing from you?
I talked to the PM
and this is completely Kosher,
as far he's concerned.
He gave the go ahead and said,
"Bounce the Treasury!"
We've got 17 different issues we're
fighting with the Treasury about!
'I can hear that you are, as usual,
upset...'
I'll tell you why I'm upset. I'm
upset because these fucking morons
over at the Treasury are paranoid!
If you don't tell them about stuff
like this, or cc them an e-mail,
they think you've started a coup!
Malcolm... You don't seem to
understand that I'm going to have to
mop up a fucking hurricane of piss
from all of these neurotics. What
did the Prime Minister actually say?
He said, "This is exactly the
kind of thing we should be doing."
What did he actually say?
He said, "This is exactly the
sort of thing we should be doing."
"Should be doing..."
"Should" does not mean "yes".
There's only one thing to do here,
what I'm going to tell you to do.
Kill it!
I can't kill it. I'm on my way
to make the announcement.
There's gonna be TV cameras there
and everything.
Well, fuck the TV cameras!
Think of something else to say,
but don't mention the Snooper Force
or whatever the fuck you call it!
Scambusters. Get rid of it! I don't
want to hear about it again. Bye!
Hugh, talk to me. Hugh,
what's going on? What's the matter?
We're going to have to do a number of
things... Like? ..almost immediately.
What's the problem? Fuck...
Hugh, what? Stop saying what. Right.
I shouldn't have been sucked in!
Is this Tucker jumping on this?
I think he was right.
He's always fucking right.
No, he's not always right.
Should...
Does it mean "yes"?
Yes, we should do this.
Hugh... When Tucker was talking
to me, "should" didn't mean "yes".
I mean, it really didn't.
I felt like a fool.
This is nice.
Yeah, this is very nice.
This is just work, isn't it?
I mean, we're not...
Yeah, no, absolutely. No, no...
Nothing like that.
It's just, you know, deadline.
Yeah, sure.
Something like, Social Affairs
Minister Hugh Abbot
will today announce a tough new
crackdown on benefit fraudsters...
Um...
paragraph. Yeah, I can
do the punctuation, Olly. Sorry.
Actually, I did have it written down
a bit better. Oh, that's fantastic
Olly. Can I just have that? Sure.
That's great.
It's all... It should all be there.
I've done it in capitals.
Cool? I think I'll say
SENIOR Government sources.
Thank you very much!
It sounds better. Yeah, of course.
Olly! Come on! Over here, Olly!
Sorry.
What's that you've got? Olives.
Olives? Do you want one?
He's brought his own olives.
So the line is, and call every
news desk, that the Snooper Force
story is that it was let out
by "a disgruntled civil servant".
OK?
OK, great. Terri... Mmm?
You can drop that tone, all right?
What tone? The
I-knew-better-all-along tone, yeah?
It isn't fucking appreciated
right now.
Bye.
The thing is,
the story isn't a story...
What do you mean? The Snooper Force.
It's not happening.
None of that is actually happ...
None of that is actually happening.
I-I can't do this.
You've got to do this.
I mean, yeah, you know reading,
talking, I get...I get car sick.
I've got to stop. We've got to stop.
Jesus Christ!
Do you think you could pull in
at the next lay-by?
As far as the department
is concerned...
As far as the Government
is concerned, there is
no Snooper Force. What's going on?
Has the Treasury gone ballistic?
No, no.
Is this flip-flop? No, there's
no flip-flop. Nothing like that...
This isn't a change in policy
in any...in any respect.
No. What's going on ,Olly?
No, well, the truth is that I...
acted beyond my brief.
What are you talking about?
I dunno. I just kind of wanted
to play the big man in front of you.
You came out and you
just made something up? No, no.
I'm really so sorry.
If it's any help...
The line that we're getting is that
there's a disgruntled civil servant.
They leaked the story. Got a name?
Do I have a name for the disgruntled
civil servant? Well, Derek.
Derek Terri...
Terri. No, we're gonna pick a name.
We're gonna pick a name. I'm
so sorry. I'm so sorry about this.
This is ridiculous! No, it's...
Did you plan all of this?
The last thing I want to do today
is be stuck in a fucking lay-by,
begging my ex-girlfriend!
All right. So what the hell
am I going to say
is the reason for me summoning all
the nation's major news organisations
to a school in Wiltshire?
So you want something sexy
and eye-catching and that is free
and universally popular
and instantly applicable, no-one
can possibly object to it? Yeah.
Yes. You should have said something
before, Glenn, because I've got
a file that fucking thick of that
back in the office! Those sorts of
policies are ten a penny! Olly!
Our entire manifesto is made up of
them. It doesn't help when you
get cynical. This as an opportunity.
It's not that easy to come up with
Das Kapital in the back of the cab,
Glenn! Olly. Here. Shave.
What we need is
something that the public want,
is incredibly popular and is free.
Return of capital punishment.
That's a joke, right?
You are joking, yes, obviously?
Come on, Olly.
Come up with something.
National spare room database?
What about zoos?
My kids went to a zoo the other day
and they said it was fucking
disgusting, the state of it.
That's shit, isn't it?
No... But there is an idea there,
because in the middle of the city
you've got wild animals.
Pet ASBOs. Remember, ASBOs for pets?
That sounds potentially ludicrous,
but then pet passports...
I mean that was a...that was a goer.
What if everybody
had to carry a plastic bag.
By law. You know the identification
cards are coming in...
You've fucking cracked! Are you mad?
What if the announcement is...
there's no big announcement.
Oh... Wait. We say the Department of
Social Affairs has been doing
amazing work, bread-and-butter work,
the kind of work that you people
aren't interested in.
It's not media-friendly stuff.
You're obsessed with how things play
in the media, you sickos. Sickos!
Every time we try and do it, we just
carry on with our day, you don't
show up, so we have to call a big...
Why bread and butter? On target,
under budget... Coal-face politics.
Coal? Absolutely, yes, I like it. Not
wasting resources. Let's do that.
Let's go for that. We trick them
by...a tinselly thing, and they come
along and then we say, "Ah..."
That's what we've been doing! We've
been doing our fucking jobs! Yes,
they never print that stuff, do they?
And you've come all this way. We've
got you two hours out of London
to cover this. You mugs! You mugs!
You've got a bigger story here
than you have chasing your tinsel.
You live in a country which is
properly... There's not
many countries can say that!
And we've probably got
ten million we can throw at it. Yes.
That's good, that,
because it sounds like a lot. Yeah.
I've got a thing here that says
"springy concrete".
I think that's about the playground
but I don't... "Springy concrete"?
Good afternoon. Should I say, "Hello,
boys and girls"? Yes, very nice.
No, it's going out on TV.
It'll look ridiculous if he's on
the six o'clock news
saying, "Hello, boys and girls."
..Real money for real families...
He's not patronising them!
Real families or real people?
Real people! Families!
You see...families. Families sounds
exclusive. It sounds back to basics.
It sounds John Major, so...
"People" sounds communist.
It doesn't! I'll say families.
Thank you. Say "families of people".
Mr Abbot...
Great, you're on, here we go.
It's what you do best, mate. Yeah.
Well, that was a fucking disaster.
Well, that... Shut up.
Thank you.
Ah! Well done.
There's absolutely nothing
in the Standard. Big fat nothing.
Nothing? You've got away with it.
He's created a press conference
so boring that none
of the Press will even touch it.
Fucking well done, mate!
You turned it around.
Well,
you really pulled it round, mate.
I took the flack. You supplied the
flack jacket. And the bullets bounced
off.
This is what it's all about, Glenn.
All those years at the coal-face,
hanging in, taking all the shit.
When you're senior Cabinet minister,
then we'll show them. And Snooper
Force... What? We'll get rid of that.
Oh, for fuck sake, yeah! Fiddling
while Rome burns. Fucking right!
We'll kick some arse, kick some butt!
That's what we're in it for, mate.
Instead of all the shit that we do.
Have to do. It's a means to an end!
Fuck me, Malcolm! How do you do that?
Can I have a word with you?
DOOR SLAMS
MALCOLM SIGHS DEEPLY
I'm hacked off, mate.
But we...we killed it. It's killed.
Yeah. But once you start the fire,
Malc, and we didn't start the fire.
It's always burning since
the world's been turning, etc, etc.
Sorry, Malcolm, you're
not making any sense.
Prime Minister, obviously he's on
the plane in Stockholm, and somebody
hits him with The World At One.
He thinks it's the Treasury
trying to stiff him one, so he...
He stuck with the story.
He liked it?
Yeah, he's backing
the Snooper Force.
Oh, right.
We shouldn't really then...
I mean, you shouldn't
really have told us to...
should you?
Don't should me, Hugh,
cos I'll should you right back.
I'll should you right through
that window. None of this
should be happening, should it?
Should it? Should it? Is that
"should" in the sense of "yes" or...
It's should in the sense that you
should do as you're fucking told.
Yeah. What...
What are we going to do now?
You're going to completely
reverse your position.
Hang on a second.
Malcolm, it's not actually that...
That's going to be quite hard,
really.
Yes, well, the announcement that
you didn't make today...you did.
No, I didn't, and there were
television cameras there
while I was not doing it.
Fuck them.
I'm not sure...what level of reality
I'm supposed to be operating on.
Look, this is what they run with.
I tell them that you said it,
they believe that you said it.
They don't really believe you said
it. They KNOW you never said it...
Right... But it's in their interest
to say that you said it because
if they don't say that you said it,
they're not going to get what you
say tomorrow, when I decide to
tell them what it is you're saying.
Yeah. I am following this. I just...
I had a friend who used to indulge
in extramarital affairs, OK?
He'd go off
and he'd have some dalliance
and every Monday, he'd come back
and he'd meet his wife,
and he told me that all he did
was, inside his head, turn a little
switch - the affair never happened.
OK? Right. There's no...
What is the problem with this?
The problem with it... First of all,
I didn't get much dalliance.
Rewind today in your head.
OK, stop explaining it to me!
I have to fucking explain it to you!
You haven't been here long enough.
Where are all the people?
Where are my people?
Um, they've gone home,
Secretary of State. It's five-forty.
OK, well, um, listen...
The situation is, um... It's pretty
terrible but things have changed, OK?
The line is now I DID announce
the Snooper Force
this afternoon at the school.
OK, that's what happened, all right?
So now you have to tell all the media
in case they missed it.
OK?
Great.
I said at the beginning of today
that this would happen!
It's happened. It's nobody's fault,
Terri. Now we have to get a list
of everyone... It's not my fault!
I didn't say it was your fault!
It is somebody's fault - your fault
and your fault. It's not my fault.
If you walk away,
I'll make sure it's pinned on you.
Everything going OK?
You cunt! We're fucked! Great(!)
This is the real world, Terri.
We're fucked.
How's it going? Good.
I think they might need a little bit
of co-ordination.
Who spoke to Nicky Campbell? Has
anyone spoken to Nicky Campbell?
I've got one missed call here,
Nicky Campbell.
It's become so complicated, and
it's actually terrifically simple.
There was always going to be
a Snooper Force policy. Definitely.
It's too good a policy to be invented
by a disgruntled civil servant.
I'm really glad you came in.
Angela, you know... Well, I could
lose my job, Olly. Yeah.
I went to the news desk with three
directly contradictory stories
in one day. I know.
They gave me flip-flops.
You know...someone actually went out
and bought flip-flops to give me.
Yeah.
You've got to give them credit for
that, though. That is quite funny.
Yeah, and they pasted onto them...
a fucking porn picture of a girl
sucking a big cock,
and they wrote,
"Angela Heaney swallows anything."
That is less funny, obviously.
That's actually quite offensive.
Can you give me one good reason why
I shouldn't do a big story on the...
you know...on the day of spin?
Why? What sort of story...?
You know, inside story of a
Government department out of control,
with diagrams and a flow chart
with your face and name on it,
Glenn's, Hugh's, and big arrows
showing who spoke to who
and how you all fucked it up! I think
I could write that one myself, Olly.
I could do the punctuation on it!
I'm sorry. I was patronising.
Hi, Angela. Oh, I like the hair!
..How's it going? Yeah, um, fine.
We were just, um, talking about
why Angela shouldn't do a big story
on the big insider-y piece,
kind of day-of-spin sort of spread
in the paper.
I don't know.
Maybe you should. Good idea.
Oh, wait a minute!
I know why she shouldn't!
If she did that she'd be dead...
to me, to this department,
to the Government, and she'd never
get another story,
or a fucking whiff of a story,
so long as she kept
her sorry hack bitch face
lingering around Westminster,
because I would call every editor
I know - that's all of them -
and I would tell them to gouge
her name out of their address books
so she'd never even get a job on
hospital radio - where the sad sack
belongs! That's what I'd tell her.
But maybe you should do it!
See you later. Yeah.
He's actually...
He can be really nice.
It's been a very long day.
I didn't say that we weren't doing
it, which is as good as saying
that we were. Bye. The World Tonight.
Hello? Hugh Abbot here...
It's always a pleasure
to speak to The World Tonight.
Go live on air now?
Yes, of course, I'd be delighted to.
Robin, my pleasure.
Nice to be with you.
Yes. Before I answer that question,
may I say how delighted I am,
as we all are in the department,
at the excitement and enthusiasm
that our Benefit Fraud
Inspection Unit has created.
I announced at a press conference
this new Benefit Fraud
Inspection Unit,
which we are hoping to call...
Sponge Avengers,
and, um, at that press conference
there seems to have been a bit of
a blip
because many of the journalists
didn't pick up on the announcement.
They're so much looking for...
ON RADIO:
'a bit of scandal or incompetence,
so that statement'
that the policy was the invention
of a disgruntled civil servant
was actually the invention
of a disgruntled civil servant.
No, there's only one disgruntled
civil servant, because one of
them's...one of them's an invention
by the other one, you see?
Anyone listening carefully would have
thought I sounded completely mad.
No, you came over loud and clear.
It's going to put the whole thing
to bed, anyway. Kill it.
And Olly's offered Angela a Private
Life piece about you. Oh, great(!)
A Sunday with you and the family,
go for a walk, spend time with you.
She'll be checking through my books
and snooping in my bathroom cabinet
and making snide remarks about how
I don't know who Gail Porter is!
We did dick her about, Hugh. Yeah.
And we're getting a roasting
at the moment
from what has been dubbed
flip-flop Friday,
so we need all the help from friends
we can get right now. I know.
Look, what do you think?
Well, I just think that...
I want a new driver. I don't
want to see this guy ever again.
On what grounds?
Smiling. Inappropriate smiling.
And smirking. Smiling and smirking.
I don't want to see that smile
or smirk ever again. OK?
OK, thank you very much. Which way
do you want to go? Blackwall Tunnel?
I don't care, you're the boss.